Linux Commands
1) ls
The ls command is used to list the contents of a directory. The basic syntax of the ls command is "ls [options] [directory]".
2) whoami
This command helps to find out who you are logged in as or who is logged into an unmanned Linux terminal.
3) uname
This command help is to obtain some system information regarding the Linux computer you’re working on with the uname command.
Use the -a (all) option to see everything.
Use the -s (kernel name) option to see the type of kernel.
Use the -r (kernel release) option to see the kernel release.
Use the -v (kernel version) option to see the kernel version.
4) top
The top command shows you a real-time display of the data relating to your Linux machine. The top of the screen is a status summary.

5) ps
The ps command lists running processes. Using ps without any options causes it to list the processes running in the current shell.
6) mv
The mv command allows you to move files and directories from directory to directory. It also allows you to rename files.

7)less
The less command allows you to view files without opening an editor.

8) Kill
The kill command allows you to terminate a process from the command line.
9) gzip
The gzip command compresses files. By default, it removes the original file and leaves you with the compressed version
10) df
The df command shows the size, used space, and available space on the mounted filesystems of your computer.

Github Commands
1) git init
This command is used to initialize a Git repository.
git clone
This command is used to clone an existing Git repository.
git add
This command is used to add files to the Git repository.
git commit
This command is used to commit changes to the Git repository.
git status
This command is used to check the status of the Git repository, including the changes that have been made but not yet committed.
git log
This command is used to view the commit history of the Git repository.
git diff
This command is used to view the differences between two commits.
git branch
This command is used to manage branches in the Git repository.
git checkout
This command is used to switch between branches in the Git repository.
git merge
This command is used to merge two or more branches in the Git repository.
git push
This command is used to push changes from the local Git repository to the remote repository.
git pull
This command is used to pull changes from the remote repository to the local Git repository.
